"welcome to the dungeon dwellers and lurkers union, local number 236." Vlar smoothed his fur while he waited for the various noises to settle down.
"Old business first. the old caldwell estate's hidden basement is in need of a few more entry level monsters..."
A voice in the midde of the crowd yells "Get a baskilist, they work for scale!" 
Mild laughter spreads through the room.
Vlar shakes his head and smiled. "like we haven't heard that one a million times
"Now settle down" he waited for the various creatures to quiet a bit.
"anyway, the job posting will be on the board at the back if any of you want to put in an application for the positions. Nice underground subbasement layout. They do specify that they would prefer no one over ten feet tall as the area is a bit confined."
Several of the heftier types grumbled a bit.
"They're only thinking of your long term health on that point."
A smaller scaled hand shot up near the front left. "excuse me"
"you have a question or do you just need to know where the toilet is?" asked Vlar
some chuckles were heard through the room. Mostly from people who remembered the time the bugbear about cleared the room by letting loose where he was standing. This had forced a change in sanitary arrangements. There was now a designated room for such things.
Snarf stood. put his hand down and addressed the chair. "Hi I'm Snarf and..."
"Not that kind of meeting" yelled the jokester again.
Vlar had to grin at that one. He put a couple of his hands out and patted the air, indictating that they needed to bring the volume down.
Snarf looked embarrased but waited and then carried on with his question.
"Anyway, I was wondering why the beginning creatures always have to guard the first few layers of these caves and such. Wouldn't it be more effective to put one of the senior members that that would be able to rip to shreds whoever wandered in?"
Vlar had to field this question now and then. "well Snarf, we arrange it this way in the spirit of community service."
"I'm afraid I don't understand what you mean"
"An example then, the cave over by the river that the locals warn everyone away from. They know there are terrible and dangerous things in there, but the 'monsters' stay in there and don't wander out very often and never too far from the entrance.
"Every now and again, the local kids pop in on a dare or a bet. One of our fine members comes around the corner, makes with the glowing eyes, opens a nice maw full of pointy sharp teeth and makes a good roar. Those kids run out with a story to tell and people leave us alone for the most part."
Snarf looked puzzled "Why not just eat the kid" 
The room erupted in indignant grumbling. Again, it took a minute for Vlar to get them to settle down.
"Well that is one option, but look at the bigger picture. You eat the kid. Yummy. now his friends go back to the village and let everyone know that something terrible happened to their friend. It turns into torches and pitchfork time. And if they lose too many people, they petition the local government to do something about the 'Horrible and dangerous situation'. 'Think of our children' and before you can tidy the place back up, the local army and moving down here in force. Lots of us die needlessly because someone didn't think before gobbling down junior."
The room was full of murmurings at the memory of the last time such a thing had happened.
Snarf was thinking it through. "but what about a group of adventurers. It's okay to eat all them though, right?"
"That kind of depends on the situation. If the adventurers are a group so green they have cardboard armor and really weak weapons, sometimes you can scare them bad enough that they leave, as in run out the door screaming for their mommies. Always a fun sight. 
"See our job is to guard the whatever it is we were contracted to protect. It's pretty easy gig until the opposition gets organized. 
"Then there are your more experienced groups. They come in and almost ignore you guys on the first few levels, who, if they are smart and have any sense of self preservation, stay out of their way for the most part"
Snarf asked, "And if they don't"
"Then we have another posting for the board in the back"
Snarf blanched a bit, which is quite the trick for a huge lizard. "bit what about, you know, the really, really experienced groups. What about Thromos Orcslayer and those sort of guys."
more excited noises from the audience. Even the jokester didn't have a remark for Thromos and company.
"Then kid," said Vlar "who hope they don't notice your insignificant butt and send the alarm signal down the line so the more seasoned of us can try to contain the damamge. You just need to hope they're not on one of their 'No Loot Left Behind' kicks.' they get a bit weird then. Grabbing what ever they find. Valuable, junk, doesn't matter. And you never know when they're going to say to themselves, aren't the kidneys of this lizard what the wizard needs for his potion?"
"Thank you. I have much to learn I see." and snarf sat down.
"Speaking of wizards and alchemists, we've gotten word of a sickness in the area running among the humans. Not sure what it is, but expect those types to come prowling around for cave moss, mushrooms and other ingredients. For the most part, just leave them alone. No need to stir up trouble that leads to rumours of the creatures of the caves cursed us, blah blah blah. Do feel free to give a good snarl as they're leaving."
laughter among the creatures again.
Okay, that's all I have for now. See everyone at the pot luck on Wednesday.
==
The vultures gathered around the body.
"Dig in everyone" said Morty, the leader of the flock.
"But we can't eat Charlie!" said the youngster
"Sure we can. We eat dead thing. Charlie's dead. Therefore..."
"But he was one of us. Not just some random road kill. It seems disrespectful."
"Look, kid, we're part of the whole spectrum of life. We do an important, and tasty, job. We help keep the place clean. It's nature and all that." he said chewing on a bit of wing.
"But we knew him. We flew together. Some of us are related to him."
"okay kid, which do you think is better, we eat Charlie and remember all our good times with him, like the time those gophers got after him. Or Mark's flock should come down and eat him like the skunk we had yesterday. No emotional connection, just carrion to devour."
"I'm not sure Mark's flock would even eat him."
"oh yeah?" and the older vulture looked up and east. The youngster followed his gaze and spotted one of Mark's group starting to circle.
"Besides,' the older one continued "if something happened to me, I'd hope that all of you would get to me before anyone else."
"Ahhh, how sweet" cooed Francine.
Everyone stared at the kid. 
He shrugged his shoulders and took a bite. "He is pretty tasty after all"
==
"Commander, I've finished the scan of the planet and I think we have a problem should we invade."
"What would that be First?"
"It's a matter of scale actually. The local beings are roughly thirty five times our height."
"Oh my. I thought that our scientist said that such a size difference was impossible."
"Apparently not. I guess it goes along with the enormous size of the planet. their moon is even ridiculously huge."
"Anybody home on their moon?"
"No sir, scans show no atmosphere, a lot of dirt and rocks. no obvious seismic activity. No volcanoes. but no one lives there."
"Sounds like a paradise"
"Survey team to the planet has returned from the surface, sir."
"Thank you ensign. I'll meet them for debriefing in the conference room."
The captain and first officer went down the hall to the landing bay to see the survey team.
"Captain, look at the size of dents in the outer hull of the shuttle."
"Yes, First, looks like they had a time of it."
The survey team disembarked, carrying one of the members. 
The Medical team jumped into action and carted the injured member away.
They all went to the briefing room.
"Report."
"Well sir, we ran into one sentient, youngster by the looks. He was accompanied by a massive, drooling four legged beast. The sentient seemed to be able to communicate with the beast verbally. The beast seemed to talk back although the translater did not manage to figure out it's language.
They did seem to have a disagreement about lumber. The sentient would throw logs across the field, the four legged one would run after it and bring it back in it's mouth. The odd thing is the sentient seemed pleased when this happened."
"Perhaps the beast showed it something important that had been missed about the log."
"We had wondered about that too. But the sentient, after praising the beast, threw the log out across the field again."
"Did the beast leave it then?"
"no sir. It went after the log and brought it back again. The sentient seemed pleased again. But then there was the accident. The log bounced off our shuttle causing some minor damage, but the beast spotted Yorg and started snuffling him. It then grabbed him in it's jaws and ran back to the sentient. The sentient took Yorg from the beast and looked Yorg over. Yorg was not moving so the sentient shook him around a bit. Turned him this way and that but finding nothing it thought was of interest, droppped Yorg to the ground, from quite a height I might add. It then grabbed another log and continued on, throwing the log and the beast bringing it back."
"As soon as it was clear, we rescued Yorg and headed back here."
"Sounds like the scientists dropped a decimal point somewhere on their size estimates. Guess that's why they are estimates instead of guarentees." 
the Captain frowned and drummed his fingers on the table top. "Opinions on our ability to take these people on?"
"Rather early to tell" said the First officer, "But is the one that they encountered seemed a younger one, and if the older are bigger, then their military weapons would be geared towards targets and structures made for these giants. so we would be a rather small target but anything that got close and exploded would be disasterous."
"The planet is massive. Think of the resources we could harvest. But how would we be able to hold a claim against these guys?"
Rubbing the bridge of his nose, the Captain did not look happy. "So if we brought everyone from home, and I mean everyone, we would not be able to claim even a tenth of the planet. Nuts."
Pushing his chair back, "Let's do all the surveys we can. Minimal surface visits. Avoid the populated areas. grab samples and let's head home. Maybe Command can figure out a way to make these journeys profitable."
==
The Gambler was watching the landscape roll by as he rode the train to Dodge City when the Stranger sat across from him.
"You don't mind me being here, do you?" asked the Stranger.
The Gambler looked him up and down. "Not at all. Be something different than watching all the telegraph poles fly by."
"I'm not the chattiest of people" began the Stranger. "but since the car is empty except for the two of us, thought it made sense to move up to here.
"There's a little game I sometimes play where I try to figure out who the other people are in a room from how they look."
The Gambler looked at the Stranger through tired eyes and smiled. "so you've wandered up here to see if you guessed right?"
Shrugging, the Stranger answered "Maybe something like that. although I do seem to be rather good at it."
"You make a habit of checking your answers, do you now."
"Not often. But sometime curiosity gets the better of me. Like you for instance, from the cut of your clothes, I would hazard that you were rather well off a couple of years ago but have since hit some leaner times.
"Looking at your hands, i would say you make your living more with your brains than your hands.
"From the bulge of your right vest pocket, I see you favor a smaller gun. Derringer, most likely. 
"You don't have the look of a peddler so that's out. That pretty much leaves gambler. How did I do?"
The Gambler looked the Stranger over a bit more carefully. "Not that it is any of your business, but you managed to get quite a bit of it right. That's quite the parlor trick. Seems like the sort of thing that might rub some folk the wrong way, too."
"no offense was meant, of course"
"of course. What say I take a try at you."
"Please do."
"Business suit. Well kept and looking new. You have the look of someone who has been around a while."
"A most grave business that everyone attends to sooner or later. And I do cover quite a territory."
"From your ring and watch fob, I'd have to guess you do rather well for yourself."
"Good eye."
"Gambler's habit of sizing up the potential bankroll of your opponents. Where was I? Oh yes, I would have almost gone with mortician but then you mentioned covering a large territory. Don't meet very many door to door funeral salemen, so that's out."
"But you are getting closer. My stop is coming up shortly." 
"you sure about that? We still have a few hours to go to get there. Gotta cross the river and go a ways from there."
"Perhaps I am mistaken. But in light of your profession, I am willing to bet you a drink that our ride will end in the next 10 minutes."
The Gambler thought about that a bit as the train rocked back and forth. "Unless they've changed the cities around a bit, there is no way that will happen. Heck, we'll just get to the river by then."
"So do you accept the bet?"
"Certainly. It's a bet. Even if somehow you're right, it's just a drink."
They shook hands on the bet and sat and listened to the sound of the train as it plowed it's way down the track. 
There was a screechier sound coming up with the normal sounds. The train took to rocking a bit harder.
The Gambler held onto the window as best he could while the stranger sat calm and collected, hands resting on his cane.
"Odd noise from train. Ain't you a bit nervous?"
"Not really. It's not my first train wreck, you know."
"What do you mean by that? Not your first train wreck?" suspection creeping into his voice
"Just what I said. I've been in a good dozen in the past couple of decades. It's part of my business."
The train rumbled louder and the car was even shakier but it didn't seem to bother the Stranger
"In any business," began the Stranger "you have to go where the customers are. Train wrecks are a good place as any."
The Gambler raised an eye brow at the Stranger. "Mister, I'm beginning to not like you very much. How about a bit of straight talk" he said as he grabbed the seat for balance after particulary bad bump.
the Stranger sighed. "Few like me until the need is great. for example, we have business in a few moments."
Thinking about that a second and the Gambler went for his pistol. 
"Won't help" said the Stranger and the train plunged off the bridge into the gorge.
Cars piled upon cars. The sound of metal twisting and turning into shapes the builder would not approve of.
The Gambler was alive but seriously injured. Through the blood in his eyes he saw the Stranger walking toward him.
"I'm pretty sure you would like to leave this place now" and help his hand out to the Gambler who took it and was helped to his feet.
"How do you feel?"
Checking himself, the Gambler answered "Not too bad really. Thought that would have hurt more."
"it did" and the stranger pointed back to the wrecked train carriage. 
"That's an odd feeling, seeing yourself like that. Looks like I owe you a drink."
"That's the spirit. Follow me."
==
He stared at the recently filled hole where his heart was buried.
==
The old lighthouse keeper had been there longer than anyone in town could remember. He looked old. Had trouble getting around.  The store in town delivered his groceries and mail every week.
No one knew much about the man or his family, or if he even had a family. 
Some folks did know that he was good at helping you sort out problems. old Jim was always willing to listen, and offer advice. Things didn't always work out you would expect but there always seemed to be a resolution.
For example, Mrs Ruthson was having problems with her husband. She had shown up at the lighthouse looking like she had gone a few rounds with someone. He had listened as she let it all out. 
That was another thing, you always seemed to tell more than you usually would and trusted him like no one else.
Anyway, she had really hoped that her husband would just up and leave. Run off with the blond from the motor bureau he'd been seeing on the side. She didn't know what she do fo money if it did happen. It was one of the reasons that she didn't just up and leave herself. That and she was afraid of what he would do if he caught up with her.
A few days later, the husband left Mrs Ruthson a note and headed out on the road with the blonde. There were about an hour out of town when the accident had happened.
Mrs Ruthson received the call and had a mixture of relief and sorrow. Turns out he had an insurance policy she didn't know about in an amount she would have never suspected.
She told Old jim the details on her way out of town to head to the next state and start over.
Things just happened after you told jim your troubles.
He did have an odd request that he made. There was an old hand hammered brass plate outside the front door. sometimes he asked people to rub it before telling him their stories. Said it was a custom from the old days.
Barbara was a curious kid. All the kids of the village knew old jim and he was like another grandfather to them. He was also another grandfather to their parents and grandparents. He had been there a while.
They could count on him for a story in the afternoon if it wasn't too cold. and the stories he would tell. Tales of fantastic happeneing from long ago and far away. Some of the stories were closer to their area, of sailors and treasures, wishes and curses. leading to glory or ruin. You could never tell where his stories would end up. 
"That wasn't a very good ending" they might complain to which he would reply "Well life is like that. Sometimes getting what you think you want is not what's best for you. Always gotta look beyond your fingertips."
An odd sort of answer but most would shrug and go one. Barbara was one of the few who did not shrug. She had to ponder things and work them in her mind this way and that until they made some sort of sense to her.
"What do you mean by look beyond our fingertips?"
Jim smiled. He loved it when the kids were curious. "When you are reaching really hard for that one thing you think you want, when it occupies all your thoughts and dream. When it feels like nothing else matters, you won't see what's around you. For example, that mouse trap over there has a nice chunk of cheese on the trigger. old mousie will smell that and think, I'd really like that cheese not noticing the springloaded doo- hickey that is waiting to end him. He gets so focused on the cheese that he doesn't consider why the cheese is there, what happens if he gets his cheese, why is it on a little wooden tray? he just sees the cheese. That make more sense?"
"I'll have to think on that one some more." 
"You do that then. Come back if you have any other ideas or questions" 
==
Going to the store was always an adventure when you're little. So many things to see. Like all the different foods. Why don't we ever get those. Someone must like them or the stores wouldn't keep stocking them. There they, are. Waiting for someone to come and buy them. Some are in languages you can not understand. Are there any people who speak that language anywhere near here?
Would I even know if they were. So many things you don't know as a kid. Where did they even find a fruit that looked like that. And when they did what made them think Hey let's try eating this ugly thing. Was there a famine in the land with no other options.(and where did all my question marks go?) Hard to type on the phone.
Then there were all the kitchen tools that we didn't have. What was their use. We're they even necessary. 
Garlic press? What, it gets wrinkled.
I mean a burger press sort of makes sense. Sure, Grandma always shaped them by hand just like playdough but I guess some people just like their burgers to be more uniform.
Ice cream! Look at all the different types. And sizes. Who would need such a tiny carton? Must be for very lonely birthday parties. 
The institutional size aisle was mind boggling. How many peanut butter and jelly sandwichs could you make out of a jar that size. Do they use like regular sized loaves of bread, or are there ten foot long loaves of bread to handle all this peanut butter. Would make sense since they have huge jars of ketchup mustard jelly and mayonnaise.
Then there were the things you would buy but never make yourself. Like marshmallows, and crackers. Especially marshmallows. They are almost magical. But someone had to have made the first batch. Did they start with the big ones, or start small with the miniture one you use in Cocoa. That actually makes sense. There they were with a nice cup of Cocoa and thought to themselves hey, something light and sweet and floaty would be just the thing and being a great chef jumped up and got to work making such thing.
==
Paul the grumpy reindeer was not happy. but that described him most of the time. "What's tht fat old man know about being a reindeer. like to see him pull the damn sleigh for once." Poor Paul had been cut from even the backup team of reindeer. That was a bad career move for any reindeer. There aren't really a lot of jobs for reindeer that pay that well. Sure you work like crazy pulling a magically assisted sleigh on that one special night a year, but there is also the practice. It's not easy getting something that heavy to not skid off a roof when you land. It's not like it has brakes or anything and add ice and snow to the mix and, oh brother, is it hard. 
out of a couple of billion landings in a night, you know that some aren't going to be the one you put on the picture of on the cover of the company newsletter.
Guess the magic that helps it move isn't that great at stopping it again.
Besides, no one was hurt and nothing was really broken in the practice run, but come on, who makes roofs that are that steep, anyway. It's like they don't expect anyone to try to land a sleigh on them from time to time. What, they think he parks in the yard and pops out a ladder, climbs up, slides down the chiminey, hands out toys, flys up the chimney to the roof again, climbs back down the ladder, puts it away and heads next door. The logistics would be ridiculous. Never see pictures of Sanata and his magic ladder, now do you? NO! Because there ain't one. We land the sleigh on the roof and for some reason, more magic no doubt, it doesn't crash through into the living room, which would be a bit faster at getting the presents to the tree but who wants to rebuild a roof every year, in the dead of winter
That sort of thing would not make the big guy very popular at all. Although maybe it would start a new scholl of architecture, where people had retractable roofs like sports stadiums. so they could open up for christmas eve and close it the rest of the year. And you could have a designated tree room with plenty of room to drop a magic sleigh in and no chimneys. Would make the night go much quicker. and the rest of the house could be designed to not freeze when the roof was open for deliveries. Bet Amazon  would get it's drone delivery business in high gear if people had homes to accomadate aerial deliveries.
Never the less, Paul did not want to end up on the wrong end of the food service business, so he headed to America to try to find odd jobs during the Christmas season.
There were stores that would like to have a Real Reindeer standing around, or tree lots, school visits, all sorts of places.
So Paul packed up his few possessions and headed south to his new life.
==
Larry the larcenous Llama will not be appearing in these stories. No, he won't. His attitude of late and been miserable. He's still whining about the ankle bracelet.
Still hard to believe that the llama could get into such a fix on just a short walk. Well, maybe his name should have been a bit of a give away. 
Whatever, back to the incident. we were walking downtown, yes I should pick my company a bit better, but he's generally a nice llama, but he has been known to latch onto the odd thing here and there. Anyway, we were downtown heading to the movies when he stopped on the sidewalk and stared across the street 
"What is it, Larry? Llama catcher?" I asked
He ignored the usual joke and just replied, "I'll be right along. Don't wait. I'll meet you at the show." and he headed across the street.
Who knows, maybe he saw someone he knew. so i headed to the movie. bought my ticket and then a big popcorn and a soda. Good action flick, or so I had heard. Seems they were wrong about the good part. Yes, lots of action but that does not make it automatically good. you'd think the studios would figure it out by now. Might explain the money they always whine about that they are losing.
They were about ten minutes into the film when Larry came down the aisle and sat next to me. "Miss much?" he asked.
"Not really, one gun fight between pizza drivers and a possible ghost but that is still up in the air.
he looked more nervous than normal. That made me worry a bit. figured I might ask him about earlier when we got out. Not nice to have a long conversation in a theater during the movie. beside, it really wasn't any of my business, but curiosity has a way of working it's way into your thoughts. He might not even feel like letting me know if I did ask him. 
"You okay, dude?"
He winced and replied "it was something I ate a bit ago. I'll be fine." and took a sip of the soda he had brought in with him.
We managed to watch the rest of the movie without incident then got up and left. As we headed back to the car. I noticed across the street there were a few police cars, with some officers taking statements from people. Didn't think anything of it until one of the people over there yelled, "There he is!"
Larry about jumped out of his fur (or is it wool? nevermind, that's unimportant right now) and he took off galloping down the street. (fleece. I think the word was fleece but nevermind).
I stood still with my hands clearly visible. Didn't want to be collateral damage to whatever they thought he had done, you know. Gotta be careful about such things.
A couple of cops took off on foot in pursuit of Larry and one hopped in his squad car to try to get ahead of their suspect.
The car pulled ahead of Larry and turned to cut him off. Larry tried to stop but slid into the side of the car where he was immediately tackled by the cops that had chasing him on foot.
Not being an absolute idiot, because you gotta admit the picture so far doesn't paint him as anything but, he didn't fight and they hauled him off to jail.
After the store people told the cops that they didn't know who I was, they decided to not take me in with Larry.
I headed back to the car and drove home. Figured I could expect a phone call in a bit.
Sure enough, about an hour after I had gotten to sleep, Larry called. 
"Dude, I bonded out, can you come pick me up down here at Metro?"
"What's the magic word?"
"That is so not funny right now, but to please you, Could you please come pick me up at the Metro station?"
"Sure thing. be there in about twenty."
and hung up.
I hopped in the car and hit a drive thru for a fast coffee, I was going to pick him up but needed the caffiene, he could wait the extra five minutes.
He was waiting out by the curb in front of the station and stepped off into the street and popped open the passenger door. Happy was not the word I would use to describe how he was looking. 
We were quiet on the way back to the apartment, but about half way home he volunteered, "Damn, almost got away with that one."
"Oh?" I said hoping to get him saying something useful.
"Yeah, I'd slurped down a ruby necklace. One of the cops remembered that llamas are modified ruminants and figured out that I had it stashed in one of my stomach chanmbers. Since they were getting a warrant anyway, I coughed it up. Literally. They had fun collecting that bit of evidence."
"I would have thought they would have tossed you in the pokey and thrown away the key at that point."
"Yea, you'd have thought. There may have been extenuating circumstances. I don't want to talk about them."
I parked the car and we headed up stairs.He headed to his room and I headed to mine.
It sounded like he rummaging through his stuff but I didn't care. I went back to sleep.
The next morning I got up and Larry was gone. Not just gone, like out for an early breakfast Gone as in, most his stuff was missing and he was no where to be found. I'm glad I hadn't posted that bail bond.
It also means I'm going to be stuck with his half of the rent next month
 This also means that I'm looking for a room mate because I doubt I'm going to see him again anytime soon.
All this nonsense is why Larry the Larcenous llama will not be featured in these stories.
==
The bright green watering can usually sits on the shelf in the front yard, right above the red gas can.
That's the way the old man had done it for years. Habits are good. His house was along one of the roads that lead from the city to the lake area that it seemed everyone headed to on weekends.
Tons of traffic then next to nothing. But everyone going past could see his shelf with the cans on it. Which is why the shelf is there in the first place.
He had maintained the place on some money had come into years and his pension. He had spent years abroad and seen some rather exotic locations. He had also spent time in some rather dreary places too, like the two years he was held in the foreign prison.
Every evening he would listen to the shortwave radio. Random seeming numbers would broadcast over some of these odd stations.  He was listening for one sequence.
Once in a while he would hear it. 
He would rise and head outside. At the shelf he would swap the gas can and the watering can. That was it. Nothing else. His part of the game was over.
Sometime later that week, someone would drive by the house and see the cans were in this order. What would it mean to them? The old man had often wondered that but the nature of this sort of business was that you only got the pieces of the puzzle that you needed. "Can't tell what you don't know." Was what someone had told him once. He was a bit fuzzy on the details of some of that anymore. 
He would watch the news a bit more closely for the next week or so. If something major happened he would have to wonder if he had set it in motion. Or it might be just a coincidence. For all he know his signal could mean, "They're on to you. Run" and he had just saved someone from a long uncertain prison term.
The whole business was a bit odd in the first place. Why not have whoever it was that was watching for the cans just listen for the numbers themselves. Cut out the middle man so to speak.
That seemed like the most effecient thing to do.
Maybe his part was thought up before the number thing was going. Maybe there were more watering can type signals around the area.
Maybe the person sending the numbers over the radio chose what numbers to send based on some flower pot arrangement somewhere that someone reading want ads in their local paper setup based on a phone number in the personal column listings.
Too many possibilities. 
==
The old lighthouse keeper sat near the door. It seemed like the sort of day that one of the kids would wander by. 
Kids walked by on their way home from school for the week. This is the sort of day that they wouldn't stop to play in the field or head to the beach. Too cold. 
There was Steve, hanging back from his normal friends as they head up the hill.
Old Jim waited. Sometime the help they wanted required that they initiate contact. Rules of the game and all that.
"Hi Jim", the kid almost moaned.
"How goes it Steve."
"Not so good. "
"And why is that." 
"judy and her family are moving out of state over the summer. I'll never see her again." he said a tear forming in this left eye.
"i'm sorry to hear that, but you can always write to her when she's gotten settled in."
"It's not the same."
"No it's not. Now you have to think about what you say. You have to put into words the things you need to say. You need to be descriptive on the things going on in your life."
"That sounds like quite a bit of work."
"It can be. It can also be rather fun and endearing. It would also mean a lot to her to hear those things. Never covers a lot of time and there are too many variables to even reliably take a guess with any reasonable amount of certainty. "
"Dad expects me to be a fisherman like he is and grandpa was. Family tradition."
Old Jim sat and thought a couple of minutes puffing on his old briarwood pipe. The smoke seemed to circle around his head even though the wind was blowing in fits and starts.
Steve stood there with his head down. Looking completely defeated.
"What does she think about all this? Have you asked her yet?"
"I didn't know what to say when she told me." he admitted.
"Then the first thing you need to do is head over there and talk to her. Let her know how you feel. That's really important to women. Like really important."
"She should know how I feel about her by know."
"In my experience I've found that the word 'should' is a red flag word. Just because something should be so, don't mean that it is so."
Steve looked at Old Jim.
"So you think I should go talk to her about this, huh?"
"Absolutely, and then be sure and enjoy all the time you have together before she leaves. She may pop back for visits to relatives from time to time."
The boy's face lit up a bit as he thought about that. "Okay, I better get home. Thanks for the advice." and he started to head off.
"Her house is the other way. Maybe you should pop over there first. No time like the present. 
Don't give yourself time to talk yourself out of it."
"What if she laughs or something?"
"then you know that she won't be missing you as much as you will miss her. Save you a bunch of money on postage."
Steve ran off to find judy.
==
Snarf the large lizard who lives in and guard the treasure of the Old Cave by the River was going about his round. He'd had a lot to think about since the union meeting. 
"I'd never really thought about what we do as a community service before."
He heard the kids outside the entrance and slid into his favorite dark cubby hole. "Watch and wait had been the instructions. Checklist. Are they dangerous? Do they have a chance at getting to the treasure? Are they heavily armed?"
He listened closer.
"don't be chicken, Billy. Go on in" dared Arthur.
Billy sounded a bit upset "I'm not chicken. It's just I didn't bring a torch or anything. I could fall down one of the holes in there or something."
"Good point" thought Snarf.
Josh the blacksmith's son also chimed in "Then prove it. Go on into the cave. Go far enough that we can't see you and bring back something to prove it!"
"Like what?"
"Stalagtite, bones, treasure. You something from the cave." Arthur explained.
Billy thought about as this sort of thing went back and forth for a few minutes.
Snarf almost dozed off from the repetivenous of it all. Still a monster's gotta guard what a monster's gotta guard.
Billy started walking tenatively towards the front of the cave. 
"Go on, you're almost in" shouted Josh.
picking up a stick, Billy headed in. He looked behind to see if he could still see the others. Yep, still there
He looked around at the floor of the cave and tried to find something as quick as he could.
"Got to find something or I'll never here the end of it."
He ventured in and it was getting harder to see as more of the light was blocked by the twists in the corridor.
His foot hit something and it rolled away into the dark.
"Great, I find something and it vanishes. "
Snarf had to help or he'd miss his yoga class.
"A bit ahead and to your left, kid"
Billy about jumped out of his skin. "Who said that?!" He looked around frantically trying to see who had spoken.
"Doesn't matter. Pick up the old bone and go impress your friends." 
Billy stood there still looking about. 
shaking his head, Snarf crept out and picked up the bone. Nice old femur from something or other. He nudged the kid with it. "Here, take it."
Hesitantly the kid took hold of the bone. "th-thanks who ever you are."
"Not a problem, kid. Now run along back outside. There are scary and dangerous things in here."
"really, like what."
"Lizards as big as people with green scales and sharp pointy teeth that could eat up someone your size in a meal and still have room for dessert."
Snarf continued "Better head out. No, the left corridor. There you go. Here it comes. Bet you make it out by the skin of your teeth if you hurry! Run!"
Billy started running down the corridor to the entrance.
He could hear his friends "Think he'll come out again?"
"Sure, he will. He's probably hiding just inside and then will pop out and pretend he did something.
Snarf heard their talk. "Time to give the kid some credibility" and he cleared his throat and started loping toward the front.
Billy heard the footsteps coming up behind him and found a burst of speed.
"RUn guys! Somethings after me."
"Liar. Nice bone though."
As if on cue, "Roar, snarl, Growl!" went snarf and lunged to the doorway
The boys all screamed and turned and ran.
Billy threw a look over his shoulder and Snarf winked at him and went back into the cave laughing.
==
Old jim the lighthouse keeper was doing what he liked best, sitting by the front door and watching the world go by. He'd seen quite a bit of it in his years on this Earth. 
He hadn't always lived in this lighthouse. He hadn't planned on living on this one. Let alone for living here as long as he had. 
Perhaps one of these times he's move somewhere else. But the conditions and timing had to be just right.
Magic rules can be so confining.
Some of the older citizens of the area suspected something wasn't quite right with Jim since they remembered him being old when they were kids. Most shrugged it off as everyone looks really old when you're a kid. and assumed that jim was in his ninety's at least. 
Grandma Foster was walking to the market with her granddaughter Karen. 
"How long has old jim lived in the lighthouse, Gramma?"
"Longer than I can remember, sweety"
Karen being a rather inquisitive twelve year old thought about that for a bit.
Gramma smiled and waited.
"Gramma, he must be eighty or ninety, don't you think?"
"Perhaps."
"Does he look older to you from when you were a girl?"
"Looks about the same I reckon. Hard to tell when you age with someone. It's more obvious on some folks than others"
They reached the market. Grandma gather her groceries.
Karen asked, "Can we get things to make a birthday cake? "
"I can't think of anyone's birthday coming up anytime soon."
Karen smiled. "I was thinking we could take it to Jim. I bet no one's given him a birthday cake in a long time."
"we could walk past the lighthouse on the way home and ask him when his birthday if you like."
"Oh could we Gramma? You don't think we're being too nosy or anything do you?"
"Well, if he doesn't want to tell us, I'm sure he'll let us know."
After checking out and loading the groceries into their folding pull cart they headed out the door, past the coffee shop and up the hill.

Jim saw them heading his way. He knew about everyone in the village so he knew they were going out of their way to pass by here.
Sometimes folks head up here for the view. Like Millie. She was a photographer. Lighthouses and seascapes were her thing. She'd had some rather impressive gallery showings and even won some awards for some of her pictures. when she was little she had told him that she wished she could be a famous photographer when she grew up. She was one of the lucky ones that he let rub the brass plate. 
It made him proud to see how her dreams had come to pass. Sign of a job well done.
Karen and her Gramma were just about there. "Hello Jim" said Karen
"Miss Karen, so very nice to see you. Miss Alice, I trust you've been well."
Gramma smiled. "I have, and yourself?"
"About the same as always which ain't too bad as long as I'm on this side of the dirt." he laughed.
Alice shook her head and smiled. "Let's not get morbid now, shall we."
"True, it's much to nice a day for that. How can I help you two fine young ladies?"
"Well, Karen was wondering when is your birthday."
"Really? And why is that Miss Karen?"
"So we can bake you a cake. We just picked up what we needed to make one so I was hoping we weren't too far off from the real date."
He took  draw from his pipe. The smoke he exhaled hung in a circle as it headed to ceiling.
"I haven't thought about my birthday in a long time. Not sure I can tell you what it is right off the bat."
Karen frowned "why not?"
"Because they weren't using this new fangled Gregorian calandar and I've never bothered to make the change over. Let's see it was right at the fall equinox now that I think of it."
"Isn't that tomorrow?"
"Well what do you know. I guess it is. "
KAren started grinning from ear to ear. She thought about it a minute and then asked, "Are you being for real, or just making something up?"
He smiled. "as big a temptation as birthday cake is, because few cakes are better than birthday cakes, well maybe wedding cakes are better but that wouldn't be by much, where was I?"
"Cake is tempting" offered Alice.
"Right, as tempting as a birthday cake is, I did not tell you a story about when my birthday was."
"Wow! We'll see you tomorrow with a cake then. How old are you going to be so we can put candles on it?"
"I think the fire marshall would not be happy about that big a fire."
"Oh, Jim" said Gramma.
"I appreciate what you want to do with the candles, just put nine on it. One for each century." He winked at Alice
"Gramma!"
"He's kidding you. now I told you he might not want to tell you his age. Thank you for your time today Jim"
"Not a problem. Always like to talk to folks"
==
Paul the grumpy reindeer had been flying for quite a while on his trip to the South from the North Pole where he had decided his career advancments were stalled.
That looks like a nice field to stop and graze in.
HE landed and looked around, Looking around is a useful skill to practive when you are one of the animals that other animals sometimes like to eat,
“Looks pretty clear,” and he decided to munch some grass and oooo there was a nice shrub, HE hadn’t had one of those for years!
While busy munching on the bush, he thought he heard something. Raising his head and looking around, he saw the reflection of lights in the tree line, sounds were coming all around him, 
“Great, wolf pack or something, Time to scoot out of here,”
 HE turned and ran, THis caused the wolves to break cover and start chasing him.
They got closer and closer. That’s when he saw they had some wolves up ahead too.
“It’s a trap and I fell for it.”
He did a bigger than normal leap and took to the air just as the lead wolf leapt at him.
The wolf stopped and yelled “No fair, We had you fair and square. Now get back here and be eaten,”
One of the other wolves looked at the lead, “Do you think that really has a chance of working?”
“Not so much, but do have a better idea for catching a flying reindeer?”
“I see your point, Guess it’s back to the hunt.” and they wandered back to regroup in the trees.
Paul continued on his way south to America.
==
Snarf the fairly big and probably dangerous lizard enjoyed his job guarding the entrance to the Old Cave by the River. IT could be a bit boring at times as he settled into a routine but then the kids would pop up now and then to tease each other and dare one another to go into the cave and brave the monster, Snarf would usually hop out and scare them back iutside, MOst of them anyway. ,
Billy was becoming a friend of his of sorts. Seems the other kids picked on Billy a lot and would almost throw him into the cave.
--
Whne the bullies were getting too rough, sometimes Billy would pull the time honored, Oh Please don’t make me go in the cave again bit. And being not the sharpest pile of nails in the box, they would soon be all chanting Cave! Cave! Cave! And Billy would pretend to be afraid until they tossed him inside with Dire Warnings about coming out empty handed or coming out too soon,
SNarf had taken to keeping a stash of Interesting THings for Billy to take back out, Interesting bones from different animals, nifty looking rocks or items left behind from previous explorers and adventurers.
Like the dagger from about a hundred years ago that was dropped by someone or other’s great grandfather who had later gone on to be a big deal in exploring circles.
Billy would also bring some goodies to Snarf, who it turned out really loved turnips. 
“It’s hard to find good turnips in a cave” Snarf had told Billy one day. 
” Farmer Sam’s place raises turnips It’s just down the path to the east about half a mile” 
"oooo that sounds great! Do you think he would mind if I had a couple?
"I don't know. I can't see how it would hurt. He does have to sell them to help his family, you know."
Snarf thought about it. "Let me check the scrap pile. Maybe I have something that I could trade for some luscious turnips."
He scurried back to a dark out of the way corner of the cave front. Billy waited out where it was lighter. Snarf had told him before that that was the best thing to do as there are other creatures who live in the caves and he didn't want any misunderstandings. Also there are several rather large holes. Some of them are for their warning system. Others are big enough for adventurers who are not wary to fall down.
This is quite a pile of stuff I have here. There must be somethingin here that is worth a couple of turnips.
A couple of armor pieces, a rusty helmet, two broken swords and whatever this funny looking weapon is. Oh, and here are some shiny discs and some shiny rocks. Guess people brought them in and dropped them somewhere along line. "MAybe these would work" He thought grabbing a few and heading back to Billy.
Billy was watching the back of the cave where he thought Snarf was likely to pop out again. He didn't see Snarf land behind him after dropping down from the ceiling. He reared up on his back legs and stared at the back of the cave with Billy. After a few moments, Snarf whispered to Billy, "What are we looking for?"
"Watching for a big lizard" Billy realised there shouldn't be anyone there to ask him a question.
"Arrrgh!" and Billy jumped pretty good. Snarf jumped back too.
Snarf looked surprised and startled. "What was that?"
"You scared me! I was watching for you."
"Oh. Sorry about that. was being quiet. Gotta keep myself in shape in case I need to do some frightening."
Billy gave his friend a bit of a puzzled look. 
Snarf shook his head a bit. "It's part of my job. guarding the hole and all that. defending if necessary, you know. Monster stuff." and Snarf grinned proudly showing many of his rather long pointed teeth.
"Okay." said Billy slowly. "Anyway, did you find anything to trade for turnips?"
"Oh sure. At least I think I have. " He brought forth his claw and opened it up.
Billy was squinting. "Can we move into the light a bit. I'm not sure what you have there."
"Sure thing. " and snarf loped toward to the front. He sat the coins down into Billy's hand.
Billy looked and couldn't tell what they were. He rubbed one on his shirt to loosen the dirt. 
"I see now, it's a coin of some kind. Doesn't look like one that I've seen before. But it looks like gold. I'd have to ask my Dad. He does trading in town so he should be able to let me know what it's worth." 
Snarf smiled. "That's sounds great let me know next time I pop by. "
Billy stopped by the creek on his way home and washed off the dirt from the coins. There were five of them in total and they were two different colors. two fo the gold ones and three silver ones.

"Dad, how much do turnips cost? Someone was asking and I didn't know, but I told him that you probably did since you trade all sorts of things." This was true since billy's dad was a peddlar of odds and ends.
"You can get a peck of them for several coppers. They aren't too expensive."
"So you could buy quite a few with this then? " and Billy opened his hand to show the coins.
Billy's dad's eyes widened. "A moment, son." and he walked around the cottage pulling the shutters closed. He then locked the door.
"Dad, what's the matter?"
"Now Billy. I need you to tell me where you got the coins. "
Billy was beginning to wonder if he did something wrong. "I found them."
His dad was quiet for a few seconds. "You're not in trouble, but I need to know if you 'found them' like 'Oh lookee here! some coins on the path' or found them like they was in someone's pocket and then suddenly in yours?"
"You think I stole them?" Billy's eyes got wide.
"Now son. look at it from my point of view. You show me more money than I make in a year, and then I'm supposed to not ask where it came from. we both know the story you just told me is not quite true, so why don't you start over."
"Someone asked me to buy him some turnips and he gave me these to trade for them."
"Someone, huh. Okay, someone in town that I know, or someone else?"
"I am pretty sure that you don't know them. I only got to know him a couple of months ago."
Dad nodded his head. "Does this someone live near here?" 
"They live out near the river."
"I see. Now this next question is important. Are you buying supplies for some bandits camped in the woods?"
Billy was beginning to understand why his Dad was acting odd about this whole thing. Who knew buying turnips could cause such problems.
"Dad, you don't have to worry. It's nothing like that but I'm not sure that you would believe me if I did tell you."
"Try me. I'm just trying to keep you from making some really bad choices and avoiding a lot of trouble down the road" Dad put his hand on Billy's shoulder
Billy took a deep breath. "It's going sound like I made it up. But here it is. you know the Old Cave by the River that everyone avoids?"
"Yes."
"I met someone who lives in there."
Dad was worried and yelled a bit, "What were you doing in there! That place is dangerous and should be avoided."
"jason and those guys. They sort of forced me to go in and grab something to show them I'd gone in far enough. i usually grab an old bone or something."
"so this time you found some money?"
"No, I'm getting to that. And you can't tell anyone, alright? I ran into something in the cave. It didn't seem to like the other guys. Handed me a bone to take back and then pretended to chase me out of the cave. It did scare Jason and them pretty good. Now when they pick on me, me and Snarf chat a bit then I take some junk back out. Snarf has a nice pile of things he's collected." 
"And this Snarf is a hermit, bandit, what?"
"This will sound silly, but he's a lizard."
"A lizard? Like a gecko. "
"He's larger than a gecko. He's like six or seven feet tall when he rears up on his back legs. Green and scaly. and he can talk."
Dad just thought about what the kid had said. "You sure it's not someone playing a joke on you by wearing a costume?"
"I'm sure. And he said he loves turnips but they don't grow in the cave so he was wondering if I could trade for some. You can come with me to deliver them if you want. I'm pretty sure he won't mind. He's guarding the cave to keep intruders out so he gets a bit lonely. Seems he's fairly new at the whole monster business."
"Well then. I'll go get some turnips tomorrow and then we can take them out to your friend. I'll put the money in the lock box to keep it safe. You run get washed up for supper and let's not tell anyone else about this. Wouldn't want someone going to the cave to capture your friend."
==
Paul the grumpy reindeer had made it south to the United States and had managed to find Chicago.
"This place looks great. Lots of buildings and it just snowed six inches this morning."
Paul was disappointed when the snow had all melted by the afternoon. He had not experienced the lake effect in the arctic. That is when the air tempature is is a bunch colder than the water of the lake then it picks up moisture and drops it as snow. Or something like that. The reindeer was not really listening to the details. He was just a bit disappointed that the snow was gone so quickly. 
He saw a nice rather busy department store. He headed in. 
"Out! Shoo!" yelled one of the clerks gestureing to try to make him head to door and out on the street again.
"Hold it. Hold it. Hold it a minute" said PAul. "How can I apply for a job if you're trying to push me out the door? Gee whiz, it's not like I am trying to take your job."
"What are you babbling about. No animals allowed. Now, get, get." said the clerk who had had enough of this rude reindeer. 
"Look, lady. I just came down from the North Pole to look for some different work and really don't need this much grief when I'm just trying to get in the door." huffed Paul.
The sales clerk crossed her arms and stared sternly at Paul. She then pointed at the door again. "Out! Or I'm calling security."
"But lady, think how special your store will look having an actual reindeer here for the Christmas holidays."
"Christmas was last month. We are over that season. So our need for reindeer will not come up again for a few more months. OUT!" she pointed at the door with one hand and picked up the house phone with the other.
"Okay, okay. I'm out of here. Have a nice life lady." ans he headed out the door.
Poor Paul. int he time it took him to get here, he had missed Christmas. There had gone his plans for the big city.
He wandered over to a park and nibbled some grass while he thought over his next move. 
==
Larry the Formerly Larcenous Llama was glad to be rid of the ankle braclet that he had been made to wear as part of his punishment for some bad decisions.
He stepped out of the apartment, lit his cigarette (seemed he was still making some bad decisions) and headed down the street towards his job. 
It wasn't much but it was something to keep the rent paid and food in the house.
as he walked past the park, he noticed something a bit different. There was a reindeer munching on the grass. This was not something you see every day. But hey, this is the city. All sorts of things happen here. But still, this is the first reindeer he had seen wandering around. Usually the only other four legged animals he saw around were the dogs, cats, squirrels, and the occassional police horse for large gatherings. 
Now those horses were full of attitude. They were sure they were so much better than any other animals wandering around. I guess the authority went straight to their heads. Usually best to give them a wide berth. 
Paul looked up from the grass and saw the llama heading down the street. "Well, maybe there is hope for a reindeer in this town. I mean it's big enough that surely there can be jobs for folks like us."
Larry headed down the street giving the llama no more thought than he would have a stop sign.
==
Billy's dad, Ralph, headed out the next morning with the silver coins in his pocket and headed to the turnip farmer's house. 
"Hello Mrs. Smithton" he called as he came to their gate. She was out hanging the washing up to dry.
"Come on in. How can I help you today." she asked.
"oh, I just came to buy some turnips. Got one of my trips in a couple of days, so setting in some supplies and goods to sell. "
"I'll go get Jacob then. He likes to handle the business." 
And she went off to get her husband. Ralph waiting around to see him. They had a bit of a vegatable stand to one side. Turnips were there. some Carrots, onions, and rutabags as well. "Wonder what the kids friend would think of those things."
Jacob came around to shake Ralph's hand. "good to see you again. She said you wanted some turnips for your sales route."
"Sure do. Might want some of the onions, rutabags and Carrots as well."
They go down to discussing prices and quantities.
Eventally everything was settled and Ralph got a bushel of each. He handed over two of the silver coins to Jacob. 
"You must have some good prospects lined up to spend this much up front. "
"You caught me, I do have a buyer interested in some of this already. Should make a nice profit on it if the deal comes through."
and ralph ehaded out.
Jacob was rather happy. He'd made a fair piece of change on the deal himself.
Ralph was happy because the gold pieces he had squirrelled back would feed the family through a few years.
"Still not sure about whoever it that the kid is going to give these to, but if they pay like that, they can have them. "
==
Paul spent most of the day in the park. He wasn't sure where else to go at that point. There were some people who hung out at the park most of the day too. Most of them didn't look like they had too many options as to where to go either. 
As it got towards dark some of them were headed out. Looked like they were going to the same place.
"where's everyone headed?" Paul asked a man he'd learned was called Retro.
"well, Paul, since we don't do as well in the cold as a reindeer, some of us are headed up to the mission to get a meal and a bed for the night. If you wanted to you could tag along. Now I can't guarentee anything but maybe they can help a reindeer too."
